I built all of these tables from
completely scratch so that Claude Opus
can optimize strategies and build them
automatically for me. Building the
trading rules, building all the logic
and math for them, and then testing them
to verify their robustness, whether they
really work or not. So, all these
settings here were all configured by my
Claude Opus. And I'm going to show you
in today's video how to do that for
yourself completely from scratch. So, if
you're not subscribed to the Trade
Tactics channel already, then what are
you doing? I'm giving you guys the real
tea. This is incredibly valuable
information, all for free. So, just hit
that subscribe button, like the video as
well. Helps boost it. And comment down
below any questions in this full
tutorial from the very beginning. If you
have any questions while following
along, just comment down below and I'll
try to reply to as many comments as I
can for building these from the ground
up. Now, my trading engine that I have
locally, what that is, if you go over to
Trading View really just has its own
engine. So, all the candlesticks you see
on screen, if I go ahead and download
the the price data here, it downloads,
it can download all the candlesticks,
right? And so, if I hit download chart
data for this and I open it up, here is
all the calculation data for my
indicators. And here is all of the price
data. So the the open, the high, the
close, the volume, etc. And it's just a
giant text file. So what Trading View
does is it downloads that from the
exchange. Whether you're doing Forex,
this can work. You can download it from
any stock broker. And then it it just
plots it for you in a really pretty way.
So what we're doing is essentially a
very similar process. We are going to
build a system that downloads the price
data. It could be again we're going to
use Binance as an example and but you
could use Forex as well. Interactive
Brokers has a global API. They have
gold, forex, stocks, etc. And so that
can work as well just just to be clear.
So when you're following along, you
would just ask your claude code to do
that instead. Now for any of the setup
instructions, if you don't yet have
Visual Studio Code, you are going to
need it. And it's really easy to
download and it essentially just is like
a command terminal that you're going to
talk to your AI agent in. And you're
also going to need once you have that to
install cloud code. Here is the
documentation here to do that. Now, if
you're not sure how to do this, you can
just go to chat GBT or Gemini and just
ask it for the instructions, right? You
can ask it, I'm trying to install cloud
code. And once you have cloud code
installed and set up, then you don't
need to use the regular chatgbt.com
anymore because you could talk to your
AI agent in your terminal, which means
that it has access to your files and it
can build a full folder structure for
you, all the files that are necessary.
It can install all of the things that
you're going to need, all hands off, so
you don't need to do that. Now, if
you're using a chatgbtd.com or Gemini,
then it's going to tell you the
instructions and you're going to have to
do some manual work, but overall, I
mean, it's a little bit more work. If
you're coding though, you're going to
want Visual Studio Code uh setup. So,
there are alternatives. Cursor is an
alternative to Visual Studio Code.
There's also anti-gravity, but for this
tutorial, I'm just using Visual Studio
Code, the official release here. And
once you have that open, you can ask it,
well, how do I open the like what are
the shortcuts I need to to get to the
terminal? You need to open up a
terminal, which is uh control uh
squiggly line. I don't know the official
word for it, but once you open up that
terminal, you're going to want to
navigate to a new folder. Now, this is
something you could talk to chat GBT
about. Which folder do I create? But as
an example here, I have created my new
folder here, and I have my vector BT
folder right here. So you can actually
just click on this and copy the full
file path right there. And then I typed
in cd space and then I just paste it in
that path. Now I'm in my folder here. So
I can launch my claude code. So you
would just type in claude and it it will
launch claude for you. So if I hit enter
once it's all installed of course uh I'm
not going to go through the install
instructions. It again is right on the
anthropic website right here just to
install it. There's Windows if you're
using Mac as well. And there you go.
It's really easy. There's like two
things that you have to do and then it's
installed. So for the for this
instructional, I'm going to be using my
Cloud Code, but I'm going to be using it
through Droid. So I'm entering the Droid
command, and this just gives me better
system prompts. So I'm going to select
my model, and I'm going to use I have
set up Claude Opus 4.6 in it right here.
Now, you don't have to use Droid. it is
topping the leaderboards in terminal
bench. So what they do essentially what
this is there's chat jeep's official
simple codeex there's terminus kira and
then droid 4.6 is down here at 69.9% so
it's not the top one however it's suffic
for me I really like using the claude uh
plan with it so I use I use this
basically it injects system prompts that
enhance the claude opus 4.6 six uh
versus just the baseline. If you're
using the barebones cloud, you're still
going to get good results. Just Droid or
Terminis Kira as well, which is a little
bit better here with Claude Opus 4.6
just injects different system prompts to
kind of modify the behavior a little
bit. But what uh Claude 4.6 can do is it
can spawn sub agents and those sub
agents will work in parallel which is
super cool to have because you can be
working on multiple areas of your
codebase working on different functions
and different tasks simultaneously with
your computer. So for for example if I
press control shift 5 here I can open a
second terminal or if I press it again I
can open up a third one and all of these
as well I can just spawn new. If I type
droid I have another droid here. If I
type uh droid here rather then I get
another droid here and I can have all of
these working in parallel as well. So
there there's multiple ways to do it but
just for simplicity let's close these
and just work in the one that we have
here. So where we're going to start is
I'm going to ask it to build our system
prompts. So now our system prompts are
basically what is the project that we're
going to do. It's completely empty right
now.
All right. So I have my full prompt
here. Basically what I asked it doesn't
have to be word for word accurate as I
said here but I'm building a full claude
MD file. This is going to be the system
prompt that's injected every single time
and when you set up your claud for the
first time it will do this. You can type
/init
so or slashinit and it will build a
system prompt for you. So that file gets
sent with every prompt just with you
know your folder structure the project
the way that you want claude to
function. And that is crucial for every
new launch that you get. You want it to
basically understand your project from
the ground up because every time you
call claude, it doesn't know what your
project is unless you send the
information with it. So the claude MD
file is crucial just uh as like a little
composed package of what's going on with
your structure and everything. And so
basically I asked it we have to download
the price data number one and then we
have a uh insample test and an out of
sample test. And then we so we basically
have to get that price data, calculate
our indicators, make sure it's modular
so we can stack them if we want and then
we run it through the actual trading
engine with vectorbt. Now vectorbt is
really efficient. It there is other uh
dependencies that you could use uh in
Python. Uh back trader is one of them.
However, it's way slower and so vectorbt
is one of the better ones out there. The
one that I actually have just as a just
as a side note, the one that I have for
my trading engine here, this is 100%
custom, but it's as close it's closer to
Vector BT, like it has it's a little bit
faster than VectorBT. Uh, a little bit
more lightweight, totally custom, but it
it works in a similar fashion as Vector
BT. That's the closest thing that I
could compare it to. But for the
purposes of this video, setting up your
own, you don't have to build your own
whole custom engine. Uh, and yeah, so
Claude has gone ahead and built a
step-by-step plan here, and it's
actually going to test and debug until
working. So, with one prompt, it's it
knows that it has to number one, explore
the codebase, which there's nothing.
Then it has to build the entire system
prompt. Then it actually has to start on
the trading engine. And so that means
building indicators and things like that
we're going to use. Now the thing with
trading view that a lot of people might
take for granted is let's say that this
uh this indicator this is wolfpack pro
this is all custom right now in our
vector BT we actually have to build
everything custom now there are helpers
that can help out like there are
indicators the the really basic ones but
all of that math what is an EMA you know
it's a moving average and what is a
moving average well it takes the price
data takes the average over a certain
period and then calculates a number and
that's the value that you get when
you're using it all in Python. You don't
have any of those calculations
pre-built. Trading View does. So, we
have to build all of that ourself in our
codebase. And so, it's fully local. And
the benefit of doing that is just that
it's faster. You don't have to use a
call every time to like through the
network to, you know, ask Trading View,
what's the calculation on this candle or
the next one. You can just do it on your
computer. Now, I'm going to talk quickly
about hardware. Now, because we're using
claude, we're not using that many tokens
when the system's actually running.
While we're building it, this will use
tokens to do because again, everything
here is executing. When the engine runs
and is doing thousands or millions of
back tests, you your client actually
just goes to sleep and waits for it to
run and finish. So, you're not using any
tokens when you do that. So, there are
upsides to doing it locally. And when
you're actually using Claude, it's not a
local language model. So it's not
blasting your GPU, it's calling
Anthropic and so it's using Anthropic's
GPUs. So the heavy machinery actually
when it's running happens on your CPU,
not your GPU. And the amount of
parameters that you can test per second,
for example, I can get maybe up to a,000
per second. Uh once the whole system is
optimized, if it's really lightweight
and the code is built efficiently
instead of uh waiting for Trading View
to do a deep access like here, see it's
loading. That's it running its s through
its servers and its system and so it has
to take time to load this and it's still
going. Now if you do this locally you
can maybe get one per second or 10 per
second or 100 per second or maybe a
thousand per second and and so it's far
faster far faster than trading view and
the the benefit of that is you can do
deep analysis whereas on trading view
you'd be waiting months to get this the
same amount of work done. So, if you
want to know if your algorithm works, if
it passes the stress test, and of yeah,
that this is the 10-minute chart on
Ethereum, for example, just there's lots
of candlesticks on the 10-minute chart,
right? We're talking 7 800,000 candles
that it just had to process, and it took
15 to 20 seconds there. Whereas locally,
you have the file for all the price data
downloaded on your system, and so it
just has to check locally. And if that's
cached, it doesn't have to load it from
the hard drive. So you're able to do it
millions of parameters overnight if you
set this all up correctly. So that's the
benefit of it. And so if you're setting
this up for yourself, again, I'm just
going to scroll back up to my prompt if
you want to read it again. But
essentially, the flow of this system is
is number one, download price data. So
that's forex or crypto or if you want to
trade gold or anything like that, set up
it up so you can download the price data
and then we run tests with that price
data. So I split it up into training
data in sample and testing data which is
out of sample and so you don't have a
look ahead bias by showing your engine
the out of sample too soon. Now there is
one more thing if your clock is running
and then if the if the agent is looking
at the out of sample data that can also
include some bias. So you can even go a
step further and then withhold even more
data that only you run and only you look
at at the very end which your claude
agent you just don't really tell it to
look at. And then so you can do one
final verification as well. So you can
split up your data even more granular to
reduce that kind of bias because every
time that you do a deep back test,
you're showing all the data at once
which is a waste. You have all this data
700,000 candlesticks. you you could be
splitting it up to make sure that maybe
the 2017 crypto market dump you test
that and then you look at the 2020
market cycle and you you want to you
want to check to see well how does how
do we perform in unseen conditions so
withholding data is really good it could
be really useful if you save it for the
right moment and you test your engine on
it properly so now we're actually
building the vector BT trading engine
here so here's the system prompt and
we've moved on to step number three here
in are developing. We haven't started
developing an algorithm yet. This is
just the framework for which any
algorithm can have a playground like a
scaffolding to play with. And this is
this was all this is just claopus one
prompt which you know for my algorithm
that I've that I've shown you on screen
here this took a lot of time to build
this training engine and to get these
results. I have more of like layers like
it will test one layer at a time and
then verify them all at the end. Whereas
you could do other methods which are
kind of just all of the layers at once.
So if you take more time you can build
the system but you have to pay special
care to how your system selects the
final parameters because the goal is to
have the most flexible parameter set
that can respond to any market condition
but still has pretty good uh draw down
metrics. So one last thing that I am not
going to go through in this video but
it's not that hard to set up is taking
your data and already talked about
splitting it into you know 60% of its in
sample and then you retain some more of
it and maybe splice it further for out
of sample testing. You can also
randomize it. You can also jumble up the
candlesticks, do Monte Carlo simulations
or bootstrapping simulations to get all
of this randomization, which is
incredibly helpful because you want to
see how stable your system really is
over time with different variations of
history and if it can pass, you know,
the majority of these. It might not pass
all of them, but you want to see what is
the worst of the worst, right? And how
bad can it get because, you know, the
future might be very predictable uh with
the market cycles or it might be very
unpredictable. It might be very random
and there might be a lot of noise in it.
There might be extra. You can also add
in extra bad candlestick data like very
low market volatility or ve a lot of
chop in the market where it's not so
clear what the price is doing and so
your algorithm has to learn maybe I
should go to sleep and not trade in this
period and maybe it can automatically
wake up once that volatility or once the
volume picks up over a certain amount.
So that is the that is the structure
here and again if you are looking at
this and you're overwhelmed I'm trying
to do this step by step but you know on
signal swap we do have the back testing
as well. We have a very advanced system
that does the same kind of approach. It
does the Monte Carlo simulations as well
and it does it directly in Pinescript
and so you can run your tests over on
signals swap.io which the website is
open for alpha testing. Back testing
will be up soon, but you can connect
your uh but you can connect your, you
know, buy bit exchange, Apex or Pinex
exchange as well to connect your trading
signals. And yeah, no, there's no credit
card required or anything like that.
It's it's free to use. Just sign up with
the referral links here and you'll get
free access to the website. So, we are
currently on the final step here of the
to-do list. Now, it's actually just
running the tests. So, it's going to
see, you know, are there any errors and
it will automatically fix those. Whereas
if you were using chatgjbt.com
and you weren't using codecs, you know,
or in a terminal like this, you would
have to do these repairs yourself.
That's why we use the it all in the
terminal. Cloud code has access to the
files. It can build them, modify them as
needed, and it can just run the tests
now. It's going to run it. It's
executing the commands and we're seeing
how far we can get. Now, as it go gets
further, I'm going to ask it more
questions. So, the first run it will be
super basic run. We're going to see if
we can get the get the price data
downloaded, run a test with maybe a
simple EMA or a MACD or some very simple
indicator RSI and see what the results
are. And then from there, we can start
building our system out. So, so super
straightforward so far. We've only done
one prompt. So, I'm going to come back
when it's done to see what we have.
So, where we're at here, I just asked it
to use a library. And of course, TA lib
that's uh li is an uh library that has a
lot of the indicators, the very common
ones. So, you can build these custom
like custom logic for more complex or
comprehensive indicators. However, this
library just for testing will work just
fine. So, we're going to run this EMA
crossover and see if it's it's not going
to survive some of the harder tests cuz
it's just an EMA. But for testing, we'll
actually be able to see the results in
the dashboard after this run finishes.
And then one more thing that you're
going to have to do just to make sure
that you're utilizing your computer
fully, you want to be able to use the
maximum CPU cores. So if you have uh
like a parallel, so you want to be using
maximum threads or cores on your
machine. So what it can do, you just ask
it to make full use of those. And when
it sets up the structure of how it's
running this Python code, you can make
it more efficient. And your cloud code
will be able to set that up. And if
you're really meticulous, you can even
set up meters like, you know, an
electricity meter that goes to your
host, for example. You can set that up
in your code to actually look at where
is it spending the most time. Which uh
area should we focus on uh in improving
further. And what's really cool here is
it's it's setting up the all of the
environments for me. I don't actually
have to do anything. I'm just sitting
back and letting it go. Whereas if
you're using uh if you're coding
manually or if you're using just
chatgbd.com
it would tell you that you have to
import this or import that and it would
be very disorganized copying this going
over to your codebase and you'd have to
know exactly where to insert the code.
Yes, you can get code from just the
website here, but any coder knows that
you have to be using Visual Studio Code
for doing this. Like I'm just sitting
back now and letting it run and I can
kind of monitor what it's doing and step
in if I need to. But for now, it's
actually working pretty good and it's
optimizing my system here. So I can when
it does it run, it'll be extremely
efficient and it'll get more back test
done per second.
So the amount of speed you'll actually
get is proportional to your CPU. So if
you have a lower quality CPU, you'll
still get faster back tests. However, it
will be slower than if you have a like a
multi-thread CPU or anything like that.
From here, I've just asked it to rewrite
the back tester to be even more
efficient. So you can always ask it to
just keep seeing what it can upgrade.
And the data fetcher, we also want to
have smart inter uh incremental C CSV
fetching, meaning if it's already
fetched the data, it doesn't have to go
and do that twice. And if there's any
missing data since the last time it run,
it'll just add that to it. So with a
little bit of prompting there, I just
asked it to make it a little bit more
efficient as it went. And then I wanted
it to make the dashboard that launch
just a little bit more pretty. We're
going to see it in just a second. We're
almost done here. We have a su our first
successful run. And this was totally
from scratch. So I have no idea what
we're going to see at this once it's
ready to go. All right, so it's done. I
asked it just to clean up the the
dashboard, making it a little bit uh
less cluttered. The first one I built
was a little bit more rudimentary. And
here we are. We have the back test it
ran. It optimized it. And here are the
back tests. We have the three top
winners displayed here with all of the
metrics. the max draw down, sharp ratio,
the out of sample data and the in
sample. Very very beautiful. This was
literally nearly a oneshot prompt. I did
have to direct it a little bit while it
was running. And we can set uh different
strategies here from the drop down. So I
can select what I want to display on the
graph. If I want to take some of these
off, I can remove them, clean it up just
to show the the ones that I want. So the
top one here, this is the equity graph.
And then we have our draw down graph
which again this is you know this is
just a simple EMA so we're expecting the
the really high draw down here 53%.
We're not expecting anything incredible
with this but from here this is just an
EMA. We can ask it to build other
strategies and combine different filters
with them and then test them. So this
right now it's already done and set up
for building us any amount of strategies
feasible using claopus. So we can ask it
again. We can go back to it. We can ask
it to build more complex strategies. We
can ask it to take those strategies if
we want to trade live with them. We can
ask it to translate it into Pinescript.
And then we can go to our Pinecript
terminal. We can open up the code and we
can paste the Pine script that it gives
us in here. And then we can set up our
trading alerts if we want to trade live
with it. Now, you can also in Python,
you can ask it to set up right here. You
can have it also trade for you with the
web hooks. You can ask it to connect to
the uh for example, you could send a web
hook as well. You can plug that web hook
into signals swap.io which already has
everything preconfigured for you. So you
could set up the you could go to so you
could go to the create bot category on
signals swap.io. You could use the free
feature just to set up your bot. And
then when it gives you the web hook
here, let's say that you just wanted to
put a small test amount here just to
trade with uh a brand new bot.
generating this through signal swap.
There you have it. There's the web hook
URL. You would paste that into your
Claude Opus. Then you'd get the alert
message and you would ask Claude Opus to
take that alert message and send it uh
appropriately to the web hook URL
destination. So you could also do that
locally on your machine, but also you
know I I've designed that to work
directly on Trading View. Typically you
will run your Pine script, you'll set up
the alert and you'll paste the message
in here and the web hook in this web
hook URL right here. So typically that's
done that way. Now if you run it through
Trading View, the signals will work all
the time and their servers have a 99.9%
uptime. If you run it locally and you
want to trade through your machine, the
signals would only work when your
machine's on and connected to the
internet. If there's any lag or anything
like that, could affect trading
performance or give you more slippage or
things like that. Some signals might be
missed. So that's just one potential
drawback to doing it that way. or you
could rent your own servers and and do
that if you're setting up something more
uh more robust if you were doing it
yourself. But most people are okay just
using Trading View. They're already
using Trading View as is, so they can do
it that way. But from that's that's how
you would set up for live trading. And
from here it you know the sky's is the
limit. We have our dashboard set up.
Let me just ask my claudopus to explain
the entire pipeline for a beginner. But
essentially what it is going to be
fetching the data number one. Then we
split it up into our in sample and out
of sample. That is crucial. And then
from there we can go on to calculating
our EMA values against the price data.
For example, you have your price data.
Again, let's just pull it up here. This
is the price data here. Just an as an
example. We've downloaded this from
Trading View, but our Claude Opus was
able to download something just like
this on our machine. And from here takes
that price data and it it knows all the
values of the closes. So it knows how to
calculate an EMA. It knows how to
calculate ATR. It can calculate all of
that. And then it just funnels that
through the trading engine itself to
calculate the net profit, the draw down
and all the metrics. Now make sure that
you're not telling your claw to just
maximize net profit. You want to
minimize draw down number one and also
potentially just work on the sharp
ratio. get that sharp ratio up because
it factors in draw down or downside risk
as well as upside. So here's a step by
step of my pipeline here. So if you want
to take a screenshot and just paste that
into your claopus, you can do that as
well. The data fetching is number one,
splitting the data indicator
calculations like I just went through.
Then step four is the signal generation,
plugging it through the pipeline and
then we run our actual back test, the
insample back tests. Then we pass or
fail our insample. Then we do our out of
sample validation at the very end. And
once it passes, if it still passes the
out of sample, it goes directly into the
dashboard. So from here, we can just
circle back to the very beginning and
then ask it to design a strategy and I
can configure how much draw down I want
allowed, how much sharp ratio I want it
to hit, and it will keep looping over
and over again until it hits those
benchmarks. Or if you really want, you
can head over to if you if you really
like the trading view, you can head over
to trading view. You could paste any
trading view indicator or strategy that
you want and it can configure that to
work as well. Of course, Pcript is
different than Python like we're working
in Python here. So, it will have to
translate. You might have to massage it
a little bit to get the translation to
be exactly onetoone direct. Or you could
have head over to the signal swap or if
you want more ideas, you can head over
to the Trade Tactics Discord. It's free
to join. The link's down in the
description. We have a whole community
of people building trading bots. And so
you could try some of these bots for
yourself. Try some of their strategies
and see if you can work with them,
optimize them, test if they're robust or
not. And then lastly, the last point I
wanted to add, I haven't added it in yet
in this video, but you can add this
where you know on step two here where we
do the main split, we can also during
our back tests do another split where we
jumble up the candlesticks to do further
stress tests. You can add more chop or
noise into it to make the data more
difficult to trade on. And then you'll
also filter through that if there's a
parameter that looks like it's good in
the training data but cannot perform
when you randomize the candlesticks.
That's another way that we robustness
test our strategies. It's almost
essential to add that as a step. But in
this simple tutorial I want to keep it
clean for you guys. And yeah, so from
here I would just ask it to enhance the
pipeline and add that. And I would tell
it where I want it to insert or which
extra steps I want to have. Like for
example here out of sample validation.
We want to have our filters rejecting
any combos that seem like they perform
well in sample. And we might even want
to have a second out of sample again
like I touched earlier in the video
where it's the out of sample. The AI
just doesn't look at that at all so that
it's not peeking at it or if it's
deciding whether it passes or fails.
It's not going to have access to that.
So you can look at that yourself
afterwards as a final verdict to see if
it really does perform or if it was
peing and cheating that can eliminate
that kind of bias from it. So that
that's the whole tutorial. If you have
any questions, just comment down below
and I'll be I'll do my best to answer
any questions on this video. If you want
maybe I'm more in depth or if you want
me to enhance this further, let me know.
I'll be taking uh suggestions on which
follow-up video that you like me to do
in this series. But from here on, I
highly encourage you to subscribe to the
channel. I'm giving you all of the tea.
Again, like the video, drop a comment
down below if you have a question, and
I'll see you in the next follow-up video
I do in this series. I'm going to be
doing more advanced strategies and
letting my cloud opus control my
computer overnight more and more as I
enhance the strategies that it's
building. And I want to show you guys
kind of the logic that it finds, which
strategies are best that it's finding,
and which are not as efficient. So, I'll
leave you there and I'll see you in the
next